SSL UCSPI protocol definition
Copyright 2001
SuperScript Technology, Inc. sst@superscript.com

This document defines the SSL protocol for UCSPI-1996 tools. An SSL
client communicates with an SSL server, on the same machine or on a
different machine, via the TCP/IP protocol through an Internet-domain
socket. The descriptors passed to a SSL UCSPI application are copies of
that socket, dup()ed from a single connect() or accept().

[address] consists of two arguments: [hostname] [port].

There are three possibilities for [hostname]: the number 0, referring to
the local host; a dotted-decimal IP address, such as 192.48.96.5; or a
name understood by the system's resolver, such as mail.uu.net. SSL UCSPI
servers use only the first IP address from the resolver; SSL UCSPI
clients try each address in turn.

There are three possibilities for [port]: a positive numeric TCP port
number, such as 25; the number 0, which permits selection of any port
number; or a name understood by the system's getservbyname(), such as
smtp.

The client and server set up the following environment variables:

   PROTO: the string SSL
   SSLLOCALIP: the dotted-decimal IP address of the local host
   SSLLOCALPORT: the local SSL port number, in decimal
   SSLREMOTEIP: the dotted-decimal IP address of the remote host
   SSLREMOTEPORT: the remote SSL port number, in decimal
   SSLLOCALHOST, if possible: the resolver's name for SSLLOCALIP
   SSLREMOTEHOST, if possible: the resolver's name for SSLREMOTEIP
   SSLREMOTEINFO, if possible: the result of a 931/1413/IDENT/TAP query

Uppercase letters in SSLLOCALHOST and SSLREMOTEHOST are converted to
lowercase. SSLREMOTEINFO is a connection-specific string supplied by the
remote host via 931/1413/IDENT/TAP.

SSL UCSPI tools take a -R option to turn off 931/1413/IDENT/TAP
querying, and a -r option to turn it back on. SSL UCSPI tools take a -I
option to turn off checking for a client certificate, and a -i option to
turn it back on.  SSL UCSPI clients take a -p [locport] option to
require a particular TCP port on the local side of the connection. SSL
UCSPI servers take a -1 option to print the local port number (in
decimal, followed by a newline) to descriptor 1 before closing
descriptor 1 and after preparing to receive connections.  SSL UCSPI
servers and clients take a -3 option to read a null-terminated key
password from file descriptor 3.
